Doubly linked lists  are linked lists where each item has a reference to both the previous and next item. They are useful for any situation where you need to acess an item and an item before it in a list, in addition to any situation in which a singly linked list would be useful.
Singly linked lists are more space efficient, and are simpler to create and manage. Doubly linked lists are more versatile.
Doubly linked lists having two references can cause a few issues when managed incorrectly, for example, when I was creating my doubly linked list class, I had an issue where inserting an item to the middle of the list lead to inconsistent references, making any iterator loop infinitely. inconsistent references can also make a list with different items or order when read from different directions.
Doubly linked lists are best for situations where lots of items need to be added to arbitrary locations in a list, and it's important to be able to read in two directions.
A major consideration for weather to use a linked list, a doubly linked list, or another data structure is convenience. A lot of the time, a decent modern computer can power through poorly optimized code. Linked lists are particularly good for storing and arbirtrary number of arbitrary objects of an unknown size, while arrays are best for storing a known number of objects of a known size. I've been working on a tone generator that stores sounds as strings, and puts those strings in an array to keep track of all of them. There was no metadata associated with each string, and they only needed to be added to the end of the array, and only about every 15 seconds at a minumum, so making a linked list made no sense.
